# CSCI 265 Team Charter

## Team name: Project HiddenFrame

## Project/product name: HiddenFrame

## Github URL: https://github.com/csci265-team/project.git

## Members and contact email

_note which person has been designated the main contact person for questions from the instructor_

- Artem Trefilov artlov59@gmail.com _main contact_
- Amitoj Singh amitojsingh.chopra@my.viu.ca
- Jeremy Shumuk admin@payrollinsights.ca
- Patrick Candy candy.pat@gmail.com
- William Thornley will.fet23@gmail.com
- Yagna Patel yagna111204@gmail.com

## Project intro

Project HiddenFrame is, in brief, a picture board, like Pintrest, that will use various technologies like DBMS, WebRTC, and APIs. It will also act as a secret message board by using steganography. HiddenFrame will be publicly accessible and encourage the general public to share photographic content. Meanwhile, select users will use HiddenFrame's true capabilities to exchange pictures encoded with hidden data.

## Team philosophy

Our goals for this group project include improving our collaborative coding skills and experienece by working as team on a larger project than we're used to, improving our knowledge and experience with git and other coding tools. We have set the academic goal of 90% on the overall group project grade as a floor. Our priorities include meeting deadlines [(see Deadlines and Deliverables)](#deadlines-and-deliverables) to allow sufficient time for team members to review each other's work before submission deadlines are imminent.

Our team is committed to engaging with one another as active participants and respectfully in class, lab, and group discussions. Active participation includes regular attendance at class, labs and team meetings. Respectful communication includes active listening, participation in group discussions, and approaching discussions from a solutions-oriented perspective.

## Team roles/responsibilities

- Artem Trefilov will be our primary contact for Professor Dave Wessels. Artem's responsibilities will include bringing group questions about project deliverables to Prof. Wessels for the group.
- Amitoj Singh will be the team's primary git and development contact.
- Jeremy Shumuk will record team decisions in the Action Item List and will draft documentation.

The lead roles assigned to the team members are as follows:

- Patrick:
  - Organizational lead 
  - Test lead [@csci265-team/testers](https://github.com/orgs/csci265-team/teams/testers)
- Amitoj:
  - Git lead
  - Development lead [@csci265-team/developers](https://github.com/orgs/csci265-team/teams/developers) 
- Jeremy:
  - Math lead
  - Documentation lead [@csci265-team/documentation](https://github.com/orgs/csci265-team/teams/documentation)
- Artem:
  - Presentations lead [@csci265-team/presentations](https://github.com/orgs/csci265-team/teams/presentations) 
- Will:
  - Code review lead [@csci265-team/code-review](https://github.com/orgs/csci265-team/teams/code-review)

The understudy roles assigned to the team members are as follows:

- Amitoj:
  - Documentation understudy
  - Organizational understudy
  - Test understudy
- Patrick:
  - Git understudy
  - Presentations understudy
  - Math understudy
- Yagna:
  - Presentations understudy
  - Code review understudy
  - Development understudy
- Will:
  - Development understudy
- Jeremy:
  - Development understudy
  - Code review understudy
- Artem:
  - Development understudy
  - Code review understudy
  - Test understudy

## Planned team meeting time(s) and communication plans

The group will meet in the library at 2:30 pm on Thursdays unless agreed beforehand in the team Discord chat that a team meeting will not be necessary. Team members can also use phone calls to contact each other in urgent situations.

Team members are expected to respond within 24 hours of a discord message and 1 hour of a phone call.

In each meeting, the team will discuss any deliverables that must be considered for the project's current phase to ensure deadlines are met. Any member who cannot attend the meeting must inform the team before the meeting is held so alternate arrangements can be made. If the meeting is held without the team member, they can join on Discord or get caught up on what was discussed by another team member.

## Deadlines and deliverables

Our meetings on Thursdays are when we decide on deliverables. We, as a team, will hold each other accountable. The Documentation team will note deadlines and deliverables in the action item list.

Everyone on the team is expected to behave as reasonable adults. Therefore, it is acceptable if a team member cannot meet a deadline or deliverable, provided they have a valid reason and have communicated this in advance.

If a team member repeatedly misses deadlines or deliverables without a valid reason, the issue will be escalated and discussed in meetings. If the team is unable to reach a resolution, we will consult the professor.

The team members intend to follow the coding conventions found at http://csci.viu.ca/~wesselsd/courses/csci265/standards.html within the work product for our project to the best of our abilities.

## Conflict resolution scheme

If not unanimous, team decisions will be made by majority vote where a quorum of six (6) is required in the team Discord chat or a quorum of four (4) is required at the weekly team meeting [(see Planned Meeting Time(s) and Communication Plan)](#planned-team-meeting-times-and-communication-plans). If a team vote results in a tie in either circumstance, a coin flip will decide the outcome of the vote.

The documentation team will track all proposed decisions and deadlines. If the Documentation team is unavailable, another team member will be chosen at the beginning of the meeting.

In the case of lack of participation or excess participation, the team will discuss the member's participation during a meeting and then come up with a plan to deal with the same. (Eg, Too little participation would get more tasks assigned, and excess participation will get their tasks distributed among the rest of the team.)

## Team Git policies

- No pushing directly to [`master`](https://github.com/csci265-team/project/tree/master). Create pull requests instead.
- Pull requests need to be created against [`master`](https://github.com/csci265-team/project/tree/master) to get code merged in.
- At least two team members need to approve changes in a PR before code can be merged into [`master`](https://github.com/csci265-team/project/tree/master).
- The creator of the pull request can not merge their own pull request.
- Force pushes should be avoided.

## Team AI policies

The team intends to use AI products in the following ways:

- AI can be used to help in research to search for outside learning resources;
- AI may be used to identify and fix bugs. However, the user must not copy and paste fixes directly and ensure they understand how the fix works so that similar bugs do not arise in the future;
- AI may be used to generate sample data; and
- AI **can NOT** be used to write code directly.

## Discussion of team strengths/weaknesses

Our team has identified that we have varying backgrounds, skill sets, and experience. For example:

- Some team members have extensive experience with git, while others do not;
- Some team members have programming experience in multiple languages, while others do not; and
- Some team members have taken some time away from coding to gain other experience, while others have been working on coding projects more recently.

In one respect, this is a strength because we have a broad range of experience. In another respect, this will require team members with experience that will prove especially useful to a particular aspect of the project to explain their thinking to teammates with limited experience in that field. We are committed to meeting this challenge by engaging respectfully with one another and ultimately improving our communication skills.

